With the flourishing development of artificial intelligence, blockchain, cloud computing, big data and other emerging technologies, "finance + technology" has gone through different stages of "financial informatization - Internet finance - financial technology", and its form is constantly changing and upgrading.
From the perspective of different downstream areas, banks, insurance, securities and capital management industries have been increasing their investment in technology, and there are many scenarios for the application of technology in the financial sector, but at present, the overall depth of application of financial technology is still insufficient. In general, the three major directions of development are better serving the real economy, financial inclusion and improving the hard power of science and technology.
In serving the real economy, the use of technology to reduce the cost of financing for enterprises and improve the efficiency of financing, etc. In inclusive finance, in-depth business and products to improve the accessibility of financial services and asset security. In the hard power of science and technology, covering the whole field of products, business and risk control, to achieve deep intelligent development in decision-making and research categories.
In the future, fintech will further play its own advantages to provide more new means to solve the problem of unbalanced and insufficient financial development. In terms of overall development trends, the fintech industry has entered a period of structural optimisation and the function of the digital economy engine will continue to emerge. In the future, digital knowledge and information as key factors of production, digital technology innovation as the core driver of the era of features continue to emerge. The development of fintech will accelerate the deep integration of digital technology with the real economy, improve the digitalisation and intelligence of traditional industries, and the function of the digital economy engine will continue to emerge.
In terms of business models, fintech companies will become the mainstream business model in the future by empowering the B-side and serving the C-side.
In terms of regulation, "strong regulation" of fintech will become normalized, and new regulatory models such as regulatory technology will become mainstream.
In terms of technology, the core technology "ABCD" (artificial intelligence, big data, block chain, cloud computing) will further lead the deep development of fintech, and the attributes of artificial intelligence and big data technology empowerment will be further enhanced.
In terms of industry development, the transformation of open banking will become a necessary stage for the future development of the banking industry. Over the past few years, banks, fintech start-ups and third-party service companies have been collaborating to launch new applications and services. Large banks are also creating APIs internally and partnering with smaller fintech start-ups to integrate innovative technologies.
In terms of talent, there is a shortage of FinTech talent and the building of talent training will be on the path to specialisation and systematisation.
